<html>
<body>

<h1>2016-08-17T14:59-0700.txt</h1>


<p>
  when i was very young, the only adult who liked spending
  time with me was my brother boris. i don't really know if
  he did, but i remember him as "the only adult who was nice
  to me."

  i wonder how common that is - to only have one adult you
  feel you can trust because they really care about you?

  later, after boris had left for college, and i entered my
  teens, my cat murka became my "boris". i remember thinking
  "no one loves me but murka".

  when i was 13, i found myself in my first crisis. i would
  cry in class sometimes (that's how unsupressible it was),
  i felt miserable and alone (extremely alone). all the
  adults betrayed me. boris and misha weren't part of it -
  they had no influence over anything. our strange
  relationship means that we don't talk often. it turns out
  that when you're an adult, it's hard to heal long-standing
  rifts.

  for me, the shaming started early. i always thought
  shaming meant someone said "shame on you for doing that!"
  and i always thought how stupid that would be because when
  an adult says "shame on you for doing that!" to something
  you do, you *know* they're trying to fuck with you. but
  that's not what shaming is. shaming is saying "there's
  nothing wrong with you" when there clearly is. shaming is
  being dismissive of any pain you might share with the
  person. i was desperate for it. imagine that there's no
  one you can ask for help...that everyone tells you that
  it's all in your mind. imagine that happening when you're
  a child who's also experiencing the first pangs of
  interest in "getting the guy you like". (PS - no movie
  ever made by a men which depicts "first love" does it in a
  way that makes no sense to me at all. i can't relate...at
  all.)

  anyway, there's a lot of traumas i leave closed. i used to
  feel ashamed for that...that i hadn't examined and purged all the lies
  that traumas had left in my head. but i decided that life
  was too short.

  "life begins at 30 or whenever you find the antidepressant
  dosage that works for you"

  i wish that older people had told me the truth about
  things when i was younger, but then i remember that they
  themselves certainly didn't know the rules.

  the rules are "how to get by." how do you make it in the
  world? when you're growing up, how do you know what to do
  when you come across a situation where you're getting
  pressured and you go along with it because sometimes
  getting pressured leads to GOOD things because i know
  better than you. believe me - i am telling you this
  because i love you. i sincerely believe that x is the way
  to do this. please - i desperately hope that if i tell you
  there's no problem, that it will go away. like it did
  every other time that you got weird frightening ideas in
  your head when you were younger (yes - i've been scard of
  aliens coming to take me. i wasn't sure if aliens were
  really or not! i had a brief time thinking that there were
  ghosts.

  james grew up destroying the dreams of kids. anil used to
  make fun of me for things instead of being gentle with me
  and it made me feel bad, but i just took it.

  i want to hope that if i let my partner know that
  something they're doing or not doing is making me feel
  bad, wouldn't they want to know? why should either of us
  just put up with annoying behavior if you've asked the
  person to stop and they disrespect you.

  maybe that's why i can't watch these dramas about young
  womens' sexual awakenings. for me, that world is filled
  with things i would be fine to never remember. (yet
  another reason to not have children: what if in the
  experience of having a child you 

  i think one of the things that made "stranger things"
  interesting is that it shows what happens when young
  people are lied to by the people they trust. unfortunately
  the girls fall victim to the lies, but the boys are
  smarter than that - they won't get taken in.

  i also liked the portrayals of kind relatives who all want
  the child to succeed.

  i always wonder how many people had that experience irl.

  what determines whether you think "my experience is pretty typical" or "i
  can't relate to aaaaannnyyyybooooddddyyyyy!".

  the best way to go is to not care about whether your
  experience is typical or common - that's where i'm at
  these days. but when you grow up being gaslighted
  (gaslighting - the main way that shaming is done to you).
  shaming often means they blame you for it. 

  what does it mean for a parent to believe so fiercely in
  the rules and the life-threatening consequences of
  breaking those rules that they will hurt you to convince
  them of it. that sucked for me what i was growing up.

  when i first began to experience what i would now call
  depression, i didn't understand what was happening to me,
  why i was crying, why did everyone seem to abandon me at
  the age of 13? why did this happen? what the hell am i
  supposed to do now? i don't know what to doooo. this feels
  wrong, but i don't want to be rude. this feels wrong, but
  i'll just put up with it because i don't know if this is a
  normal thing that happens to everyone or if this is very
  wrong and you should not let people treat you like that.

  of course now it doesn't matter and it doesn't affect me,
  but i still feel sad for 13 year old me. i feel her pain,
  her feeling of being completely lost and not having any
  clue what to do. things were so bleak to her that she
  tried to commit suicide - actually tried to do it! in 17
  years of depression, the only time she had actually
  attempted suicide was once or twice (i can't remember)
  when she was 13.

  what do you do when your friend is suicidal but no adult
  would listen to you and take the issue seriously enough to
  try and help with whatever magical "adult knowledge" and
  therefore "adult powers" gave them. i loved believing that
  adults had at least SOME answers. lol. another lesson i
  wish i had learned earlier.

  self help books means "books of advice". "want to become
  an astronaut? here's how you do it." "want to start a
  restaurant? here's what you have to do."

  i feel so silly that i was once taken in by some self-help
  books. of course they never worked because the problems in
  my life had to do.

  what do you do when for the first time in your life, you
  feel like you're taking crazy pills. that no one around
  you is making any sense and you're not sure why. and you
  don't know whether you're the one that's wrong or they're
  the ones that are wrong. it would be fine and i'd just be
  an alienated (perhaps empowered as an adult?) weirdo. but
  unfortunately mine involved being told i was crazy.

  i am traumatized by my hard lessons: by people who i
  expected to treat me well ended up treating me badly.

  i had a snack and said "oh well". because that's what my
  medicine allows me to do. this is why i wasn't lying when
  i told my psychiatrist "i am so so grateful to you." "no
  really, this is the single top priority in my life."

</p>











</body>
</html>
